# Sedgerly_Fire_Thunderstorm
## Code for PhD Thesis Chapter Six
Manuscript currently in preparation: McCarthy, N., McGowan, H., Guyot, A., &amp; Dowdy, A. (In Preparation). Crown Fire Initiation of Thunderstorms. Ben Twomey assisted with the modelling using Phoenix and SABRE through Queensland Fire and Emergency Services.  Input from Prof. Hamish McGowan, Dr Adrien Guyot and Dr Andrew Dowdy. In preparation for submission.

### From Chapter Introduction:
The Bushfire Convective Plume Experiment (BCPE) field campaign targeted observations of fire-driven thunderstorms, and aimed to couple these observations with quantitative observations of fire behaviour (McCarthy et al., 2018). Following the successful BCPE observations of the 2015/2016 bushfire season, the BCPE field campaign undertook a re-focussed strategy of data collection during the 2016/2017 bushfire season. The focus of the radar data collection was on purely observing fire-driven thunderstorms with a volumetric scan strategy, and analysing the lifecycle with observed pyrogenic and atmospheric drivers. 
The Sedgerly fire was ignited by lightning in Bringallily State Forest, Queensland on the 4th of December 2016 and was a case study of the BCPE. This fire provided an opportunity to make the first direct observations of a fire-initiated thunderstorm by deployable X-band radar on the 5th and 6th of December. The UQ-XPOL captured successive stages of the lifecycle (initiation, growth, maturation and decay) of thunderstorms initiated from this fire. In addition to capturing the storm-scale dynamics of the event, in-situ, remote sensing and stochastic modelling was performed to analyse the fire behaviour. This fire behaviour analysis was combined with mobile X-band radar observations, meteorological satellite and in-situ radiosonde observations, with this approach designed to shed a new light on fire-atmosphere coupling and associated feedbacks.
